When the preaching work
was getting started
in such countries
as South Korea,
Jehovah often used missionaries
to help strengthen our brothers.
In an archived interview,
Brother Chong-il Park
describes the effect
this had on his sacred service
and how it prepared him
for the trials he would face.
From 1939 on,
our brothers
didn’t have any contact
with Jehovah’s organization,
and they thought
that no organization existed.
Then, in 1948,
a brother
read from a newspaper
about the activity
of Watchtower Society.
And it surprised the brothers.
So brothers wrote the Society,
and the Society
was so happy
hearing from Korean brothers,
and they answered
with many booklets
in Korean.
There were
two different reactions.
Some brothers was excited
about preaching work.
Yet,
another group questioned:
“Is that true organization
of Jehovah?”
First missionary group
—Brother and Sister Steele—
arrived on August 9, 1949.
All the questions
were answered
by Brother Steele,
and then
right away
brothers were preaching
in unity.
I began pioneering
in January 1950.
And then in March 1950,
six more missionaries
arrived from Gilead School.
We had only one congregation
in Seoul.
And the missionaries
were busy for many Bible studies.
So many interested persons
coming to the meetings.
The public talk was arranged
in school auditorium
—first time.
And there were
over 360 people attended,
whereas the publishers was
about 60.
The same day,
Korean War broke out,
and the missionaries
had to leave
on 27th of June
to Japan.
And then our brothers
had to take refuge
to southern part
of Korea.
I was hiding
in the country.
Then few days later,
the secret police
from Communist found us.
We explained to him
as a Christian
we cannot participate in the war,
so we had
to hide ourselves.
And then he says: “Well,
I do not know much about religion,
“so I better take
one of my friends
“who knows about religion.
“So I will
come back tomorrow.
Don’t leave from here.”
So, then,
we waited until next day,
and he came with another.
So I started preaching
from the Bible
about why
this war broke out
and the many problems
in the world
and so on,
because the fulfillment
of Jesus’ prophecy
in Matthew 24.
And then they say,
“Well, thank you very much
for your preaching.”
And then say, “Goodbye.”
Then two days later,
the latter one came
with another friend
so that we could preach to them.
During three months
they were staying in Seoul,
and, in fact,
they protected us.
I was picked
by South Korean army
to serve the back support
of the military
in front line to carry arms
to the soldiers,
which I could not accept,
so I refused it.
And then
I was beaten.
And then one day
this company has to move
to another place.
I hide myself
in behind the ceiling
so that they don’t notice
when they leave the place.
And the next morning
when I came down,
there was nothing left.
I walked on one street,
toward one direction,
and then I found a sign
that said
“International Bible Students Association.”
So I stayed with the brothers
for six months.
Brother Steele
came back from Japan
by himself to take care
of the brothers.
In 1952, Brother Steele
recommended me
to Gilead School.
So that I was invited
in 22nd class.
So I took the steps
to get the passport.
And then the government find out
that I didn’t serve in military.
They gave me draft notice
instead of passport.
So I had to stand
for the neutrality
instead of going to Gilead School,
which made me to be confined
in military prison
for two years.
Then 1958, I was enrolled
in Gilead School in 32nd class.
I really appreciate
that great Gilead School training.
Since my job in the branch,
especially in translation work
—and translation work
involves much deep knowledge—
the Gilead training
has certainly helped
in translation work.
The real appreciation
about the truth
and the organization,
the brothers’ qualities,
the humbleness and meekness,
certainly it helped me
to follow the examples
to apply
in the full-time service.
Did you note what Brother Park
said he appreciated most
even after enduring persecution
and prison for his faith?
It was the Christlike qualities
of his brothers
and the training he received
from Jehovah’s organization
—another example of the benefits
that result from our meeting together.
If you’d like to find more ways
to imitate Brother Park’s faith,
you can read his life story
beginning on page 12
of the December 2008 issue
of Awake!